[Agent Skills] Add agent skills and rules for ECS PR Triage (#2608)
elastic/ecs: .agents/skills/ecs-pr-triage/classification-rules.md

# ECS PR classification — decision rules

Use after inspecting the diff (files touched, approximate size, semantics). See [rfcs/README.md](../../../rfcs/README.md) and [CONTRIBUTING.md](../../../CONTRIBUTING.md) for project wording.

## 1. RFC required (any match → **Needs RFC**)

| Trigger | Examples / notes |
|--------|-------------------|
| New top-level field set | New `schemas/<name>.yml` (new `name:` at field-set level) |
| Breaking change | Removing fields; changing `type`; narrowing/breaking semantics; moving fields; `extended` → `core` promotions; incompatible `allowed_values` / categorization |
| New reuse topology | New `reusable.expected` entries that introduce nesting in new places (e.g. new `{at, as}` role) |
| Novel / unaddressed use case | Domain or signal type not clearly covered by existing field sets; “we need a place for X” without an obvious existing home |
| ECS-wide scope | Changes to core taxonomy (`event.*` categorization), compliance story, or conventions affecting most integrations |

> | Large batch | Rough heuristic: **> ~10** new leaf fields in one PR (especially across concepts) — treat as substantial unless clearly trivial mirrors of semconv |

Reviewer: We might need to lower this threshold - to 0 if decided to have all new fields as RFC or to 5 
10 fields seems a lot to me, but I’m not 100% sure if I’m not too strict there

Author: Lowering to 5

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/elastic/ecs/pull/2608/commits/067f0e6edffee739a4d68b2fc054b7ddb90799c1

> | Large batch | Rough heuristic: **> ~10** new leaf fields in one PR (especially across concepts) — treat as substantial unless clearly trivial mirrors of semconv |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Large batch | Rough heuristic: **> ~10** new leaf fields in one PR (especially across concepts) — treat as substantial unless clearly trivial changes |
```

## 2. Direct PR OK (typically **Direct PR**)

All should be low controversy and incremental:

| Pattern | Examples |
|---------|----------|
| Bugfix / clarity | Typos, wrong examples, description fixes, strict-mode fixes (`short`, quoted examples) |

> | Small additive extension | 1–2 new fields in an **existing** field set that mirror established patterns (e.g. new OTel-aligned attribute in `gen_ai.*`) |

Reviewer: ok, so 1-2 fields indeed might be ok without RFC, but between 2 and 10 there is a big difference

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/elastic/ecs/pull/2608/commits/067f0e6edffee739a4d68b2fc054b7ddb90799c1

| Tooling only | `scripts/`, generator templates, tests, Makefile |
| Non-generated docs | `docs/` that are not generator output (verify path); README, CONTRIBUTING cross-links |
| Changelog / version housekeeping | `CHANGELOG.next.md`, release-note scaffolding (if consistent with repo practice) |
| Release process | Version bumps (`version` file), moving/updating release notes, updating `docs/` release notes, `CHANGELOG` rotation — standard release mechanics |
| CI / automation | `.github/workflows/` (non-breaking) |

**Caveat:** If a “small” addition introduces **new** semantics (new tool protocol, new entity type), escalate to **Needs RFC** or **Needs Discussion**.

## 3. Needs discussion (maintainer judgment)

Use when not clearly 1 or 2:

| Situation | Why ambiguous |
|-----------|-----------------|

> | **3–10** new fields in one field set | May be one coherent extension or may need design review |

Reviewer: ok, my bad, now I see the full picture :)
Let’s discuss anyway if we want to always have RFC for new fields or not

Author: Changed this to 3-5 . Since greater than 5 is considered large batch

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/elastic/ecs/pull/2608/commits/067f0e6edffee739a4d68b2fc054b7ddb90799c1
